docs/tutorial-game-rules/card-types.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Card Types
Card Types and Their Roles in "Alice: Cards of Wonder"

## Creature Cards

Creature cards represent the various characters from the world of Wonderland. Each card features a unique character, such as Alice or the Mad Hatter, with specific abilities.

### Usage
Players use Creature cards to engage in battles, collect elements, and activate special abilities.

### Abilities
Each Creature card has abilities that can be activated by possessing specific elements.

### Role
These cards are central to the gameplay, as they are the primary means for players to interact with each other and progress in the game.

## Artifact Cards

Artifacts are items, skills, or tools that provide additional powers or enhancements to Creatures.

### Usage
Players attach Artifact cards to their Creatures to enhance their abilities, improve attack and defense stats, or gain other strategic advantages.

### Enhancements
Artifacts can boost a Creature's performance in battles, provide additional actions, or unlock new capabilities.

### Role
These cards add depth to the strategy, allowing players to customize their approach and adapt to changing gameplay scenarios.

## Action Cards

Action cards are powerful, single-use cards that have immediate effects on the game.

### Usage
Players play Action cards to alter the course of the game, such as by impacting battles, disrupting opponents' plans, or changing the state of the game board.

### Immediate Effects
The effects of these cards are often game-changing and can provide a significant advantage or turn the tide in critical situations.

### Role
Action cards introduce an element of surprise and unpredictability, adding dynamic interactions and tactical decisions to the gameplay.

## Environment Cards

Environment cards change the landscape of the game, offering various challenges or benefits.

### Usage
Players play Environment cards to affect the gameplay conditions, such as by enhancing certain types of Creatures or Artifacts, or by altering how elements are collected.

### Gameplay Impact
These cards can boost specific strategies, counter opponents' tactics, or provide unique conditions for refining gems.

### Role
Environment cards add a layer of strategic planning, encouraging players to adapt their tactics based on the current game environment.

Commit message:

amended card types and turn structure page

docs/tutorial-game-rules/card-types.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Card Types
Card Types and Their Roles in "Alice: Cards of Wonder"

## Creature Cards

Creature cards represent the various characters from the world of Wonderland. Each card features a unique character, such as Alice or the Mad Hatter, with specific abilities.

### Usage
Players use Creature cards to engage in fights, collect elements, and activate special abilities.

### Abilities
Each Creature card's abilities can be activated by paying the cost of one unit of any collected element. To use an ability, simply burn an element by returning it to the pool.

### Role
These cards are central to the gameplay, as they are the primary means for players to interact with each other and progress in the game.

## Artifact Cards

Artifacts are items or skills that enhance a Creature's attack and/or defense power.

### Types
- **Items**: Enhance the attaching Creature's attack and/or defense power. Made with elements, undamaged items can be recycled to reclaim the original elements.
- **Skills**: Also enhance the attaching Creature's attack and/or defense power.

### Usage
Players attach Artifact cards to their Creatures to improve attack and defense stats.

### Recycling and Collection
Undamaged items can be recycled to get back the original elements. By winning battles, the winner can collect elements from the opponent's attached artifacts.

### Role
These cards add depth to the strategy, allowing players to customize their approach and adapt to changing gameplay scenarios by adjusting their creatures' combat capabilities.


## Action Cards

Action cards are powerful, single-use cards that have immediate effects on the game.

### Usage
Players play Action cards to alter the course of the game, such as by impacting battles, disrupting opponents' plans, or changing the state of the game board.

### Immediate Effects
The effects of these cards are often game-changing and can provide a significant advantage or turn the tide in critical situations.

### Role
Action cards introduce an element of surprise and unpredictability, adding dynamic interactions and tactical decisions to the gameplay.

## Environment Cards

Environment cards change the landscape of the game, offering various challenges or benefits.

### Usage
Players play Environment cards to affect the gameplay conditions, such as by enhancing certain types of Creatures or Artifacts, or by altering how elements are collected.

### Gameplay Impact
These cards can boost specific strategies, counter opponents' tactics, or provide unique conditions for refining gems.

### Role
Environment cards add a layer of strategic planning, encouraging players to adapt their tactics based on the current game environment.
