docs/tutorial-game-rules/using-tokens.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Using Tokens

Tokens play a crucial role in **Alice: Cards of Wonder**, representing elements and gems crucial to achieving victory in the game. Understanding their use is key to mastering the game's strategies.

## Gem Tokens

Gem Tokens represent the ultimate objective of the game. There are three types of Gem Tokens: Red, Green, and Purple. Each Gem Token corresponds to a specific combination of elements required for its refinement.

- **Role in Refinement:** Players collect specific Element Tokens to refine into Gem Tokens. The process of refining involves accumulating the necessary combination of elements and then converting them into a Gem Token.

- **Victory Condition:** The first player to successfully refine all three types of Gem Tokens – Red, Green, and Purple – wins the game.

## Element Tokens

Element Tokens are the building blocks for refining gems. There are six types of elements: Water, Wood, Fire, Earth, Metal, and Herbs.

- **Collection:** Players collect Element Tokens through various actions such as winning battles, activating certain abilities of Creature or Artifact cards, or through specific Environment card effects.

- **Role in Gameplay:** Element Tokens are used to:
Activate abilities on Creature and Artifact cards. Certain abilities require players to spend specific Element Tokens to activate them.
Refine into Gem Tokens. Players must collect the right combination of Element Tokens to refine them into a Gem Token.

:::tip Strategic Use of Tokens

***Resource Management***

Managing your Element Tokens effectively is crucial. Deciding when to use them for activating abilities and when to save them for refining into Gem Tokens is a key strategic decision.

***Planning and Adaptation***

Players need to adapt their strategy based on the Element Tokens they have and the ones they need. This might involve changing tactics mid-game, trading off immediate benefits for long-term goals, or disrupting an opponent's token collection.

:::

## Other Tokens

In addition to Gem and Element Tokens, "Alice: Cards of Wonder" utilizes several other types of tokens, each serving specific purposes in the game:

### Health Point (HP) Tokens:
- **Purpose:** HP Tokens indicate the remaining health points of a character.

- **Usage:** Place HP Tokens on a character card to track its current health. Characters start with a certain number of HP Tokens, as indicated in their description.

- **Effect:** When a character receives damage, remove the corresponding number of HP Tokens. If a character’s HP drops to zero, they are defeated and must be moved to the discard pile.
Role in Battles: Monitoring HP is crucial during battles, as it determines a character's survivability and influence in the game.

### Reap Tokens:
- **Purpose:** Reap Tokens indicate that a character is engaged in reaping elements.

- **Usage:** Place a Reap Token on a character card when they are reaping elements as per game rules.

- **Effect:** A character with a Reap Token cannot declare or engage in fights during that turn. This represents their focus on gathering elements rather than battling.

### Lock Tokens
- **Purpose:** Lock Tokens are used to indicate that a character or artifact has been temporarily disabled or restricted by an opponent’s action or ability.

- **Usage:** Place a Lock Token on a character or artifact card when an opponent’s action or ability prevents its use.

- **Effect:** The locked character or artifact cannot be used until the Lock Token is removed, typically at the start of the player’s next turn.

## Summary

Tokens are vital in **Alice: Cards of Wonder**, representing elements and gems essential for victory. Gem Tokens (Red, Green, Purple) are refined from Element Tokens (Water, Wood, Fire, Earth, Metal, Herbs). Effective resource management and strategic use of Element Tokens are key to activating abilities and refining gems. Other tokens include Health Point (HP) Tokens for tracking character health, Reap Tokens for element collection, and Lock Tokens for indicating disabled characters or artifacts. Understanding token usage enhances gameplay and strategy.

Commit message:

amend the word from "character" to "creature" to make it more clear

docs/tutorial-game-rules/using-tokens.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Using Tokens

Tokens play a crucial role in **Alice: Cards of Wonder**, representing elements and gems crucial to achieving victory in the game. Understanding their use is key to mastering the game's strategies.

## Gem Tokens

Gem Tokens represent the ultimate objective of the game. There are three types of Gem Tokens: Red, Green, and Purple. Each Gem Token corresponds to a specific combination of elements required for its refinement.

- **Role in Refinement:** Players collect specific Element Tokens to refine into Gem Tokens. The process of refining involves accumulating the necessary combination of elements and then converting them into a Gem Token.

- **Victory Condition:** The first player to successfully refine all three types of Gem Tokens – Red, Green, and Purple – wins the game.

## Element Tokens

Element Tokens are the building blocks for refining gems. There are six types of elements: Water, Wood, Fire, Earth, Metal, and Herbs.

- **Collection:** Players collect Element Tokens through various actions such as winning battles, activating certain abilities of Creature or Artifact cards, or through specific Environment card effects.

- **Role in Gameplay:** Element Tokens are used to:
Activate abilities on Creature and Artifact cards. Certain abilities require players to spend specific Element Tokens to activate them.
Refine into Gem Tokens. Players must collect the right combination of Element Tokens to refine them into a Gem Token.

:::tip Strategic Use of Tokens

***Resource Management***

Managing your Element Tokens effectively is crucial. Deciding when to use them for activating abilities and when to save them for refining into Gem Tokens is a key strategic decision.

***Planning and Adaptation***

Players need to adapt their strategy based on the Element Tokens they have and the ones they need. This might involve changing tactics mid-game, trading off immediate benefits for long-term goals, or disrupting an opponent's token collection.

:::

## Other Tokens

In addition to Gem and Element Tokens, "Alice: Cards of Wonder" utilizes several other types of tokens, each serving specific purposes in the game:

### Health Point (HP) Tokens:
- **Purpose:** HP Tokens indicate the remaining health points of a creature.

- **Usage:** Place HP Tokens on a creature card to track its current health. Creatures start with a certain number of HP Tokens, as indicated in their description.

- **Effect:** When a creature receives damage, remove the corresponding number of HP Tokens. If a creatures' HP drops to zero, they are defeated and must be moved to the discard pile.

- **Role in Battles:** Monitoring HP is crucial during battles, as it determines a creature's survivability and influence in the game.

### Reap Tokens:
- **Purpose:** Reap Tokens indicate that a creature is engaged in reaping elements.

- **Usage:** Place a Reap Token on a creature card when they are reaping elements as per game rules.

- **Effect:** A creature with a Reap Token cannot declare or engage in fights during that turn. This represents their focus on gathering elements rather than battling.

### Lock Tokens
- **Purpose:** Lock Tokens are used to indicate that a creature or artifact has been temporarily disabled or restricted by an opponent’s action or ability.

- **Usage:** Place a Lock Token on a creature or artifact card when an opponent’s action or ability prevents its use.

- **Effect:** The locked creature or artifact cannot be used until the Lock Token is removed, typically at the start of the player’s next turn.

## Summary

Tokens are vital in **Alice: Cards of Wonder**, representing elements and gems essential for victory. Gem Tokens (Red, Green, Purple) are refined from Element Tokens (Water, Wood, Fire, Earth, Metal, Herbs). Effective resource management and strategic use of Element Tokens are key to activating abilities and refining gems. Other tokens include Health Point (HP) Tokens for tracking creature health, Reap Tokens for element collection, and Lock Tokens for indicating disabled creatures or artifacts. Understanding token usage enhances gameplay and strategy.
