docs/overview.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Game Overview

## Objective

In **Alice: Cards of Wonder**, your goal is to navigate the whimsical and ever-changing world of Wonderland, alongside Alice and other iconic characters. The primary objective is to collect elements and refine them into magical gems – Red, Green, and Purple. These gems hold the key to understanding and influencing the mysteries of Wonderland. The first player to successfully refine all three types of gems is declared the winner.

## Components
**The game includes:**
- 52 beautifully illustrated playing cards, divided into four categories: Creatures, Artifacts, Actions, and Environments.
- Creature cards, featuring characters like Alice, the Mad Hatter, the White Rabbit and Cheshire Cat, each with unique abilities.
- Artifact cards that equip Creatures with special tools, skills, and powers.
- Action cards, which are either single-use or ongoing and provide strategic advantages or disrupt opponents.
- Environment cards that alter the gameplay landscape, offering various benefits or challenges.
- Additional components include creature tokens, gem tokens, and element tokens, which are integral to the gameplay mechanics.

## Basic Premise
**Alice: Cards of Wonder** combines elements of strategy, resource management, and storytelling. Players use their cards to engage in battles, collect elements, and refine them into gems. The game is set against the backdrop of Wonderland, a realm filled with peculiar characters and surprising twists. Each turn, players choose which character to activate, deploy artifacts, use action cards, and strategically manipulate the game environment. The game encourages players to adapt to changing scenarios and outwit their opponents in a bid to gather all necessary elements and craft the mystical gems.

## Base and Expansion Sets
This tutorial covers both the base set **Alice: Cards of Wonder** and the expansion set **Alice: Reign of the Queen**. Since the overall game rules are nearly identical for both the base set alone and the combined set, a single tutorial will be used for both scenarios. Any rules specific to the base game or the expansion will be indicated with a special marker.

Commit message:

modified the Game Overview page and Changes page

docs/overview.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Game Overview

## Objective

In **Alice: Cards of Wonder**, your goal is to navigate the whimsical and ever-changing world of Wonderland, alongside Alice and other iconic characters. The primary objective is to collect elements and refine them into magical gems – Red, Green, and Purple. These gems hold the key to understanding and influencing the mysteries of Wonderland. The first player to successfully refine all three types of gems is declared the winner.

## Components
**The game includes:**
The game includes 72 playing cards divided into four categories: Creatures, Artifacts, Actions, and Environments. Each card type has unique abilities and effects. Additionally, the game features tokens representing creatures, gems, and elements.

## Basic Premise
**Alice: Cards of Wonder** combines elements of strategy, resource management, and storytelling. Players use their cards to engage in battles, collect elements, and refine them into gems. The game is set against the backdrop of Wonderland, a realm filled with peculiar characters and surprising twists. Each turn, players choose which character to activate, deploy artifacts, use action cards, and strategically manipulate the game environment. The game encourages players to adapt to changing scenarios and outwit their opponents in a bid to gather all necessary elements and craft the mystical gems.

## Base and Expansion Sets
This tutorial covers both the base set **Alice: Cards of Wonder** and the expansion set **Alice: Reign of the Queen**. Since the overall game rules are nearly identical for both the base set alone and the combined set, a single tutorial will be used for both scenarios. Any rules specific to the base game or the expansion will be indicated with a special marker.
